[Music]
the next day brings something both scary
and spectacular a stick fighting
festival or saguenay hundreds of men
from nearby villages gathered in a
clearing armed with sticks pumped with
adrenaline ready for battle I had heard
a lot about these contests but nothing
could prepare me for what I was about to
see Tommy is there any etiquette before
I enter in here because this is one
place I don't want to go anything wrong
I'd say anyone walk into this it's
amazing isn't it you can see what's
going on but still you have to take a
yeah of course in stick fight sticks
going everywhere going for because I
move in and you can see just behind you
that's the guy who's oh we net off the
previous game they carry him like that
check that out I've been brought in on
his shoulders
there's no and it's okay for for guns to
come in as well yeah guests are always
in a part of the culture they're just
here we go a little bit closer
[Applause]
[Music]
unbelievable it's it's so much energy
and aggression
[Music]
Sablin tells me that saguenay is can
take place at any time of the year but
I've come in peak season just after the
rains when food is plentiful and there's
enough time and energy for fighting
stick fighting is a bit like a martial
art part ritual part sport but it's
serious stuff eyes and teeth are lost
bones are broken men die he's got a good
couple of cracks already on his head and
a fair bit of blood I don't think I
would have a chance if I got stuck in
here
size of these guys is huge the way I try
to understand a culture is by living as
they do I've no idea if I'll even be
allowed to fight but I reckon it's the
only way I'm gonna earn respect out here
I really have never seen anything like
this it's beautiful yeah it's really
dangerous the mere thought of getting
involved in this just sends shivers down
my spine
you